Data warehouse views docs (#6714)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/data-warehouse/views.md

---
title: Creating views
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

The PostHog data warehouse supports views. With views, you can save your most used queries and reference them in subsequent queries.

### Creating a view

> Query views are created directly inside the HogQL editor. If the query has valid view characteristics, the "Save as view" button will be enabled. You will be prompted to give the view a name which will be the name that can be refeneced in other queries. For a query to be a valid view, all fields being accessed must be aliased. The alias names will be how you access the fields on the view. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query views are created directly inside SQL insights. If the query has valid view characteristics, the "Save as view" button is enabled. When clicked, you are prompted to give the view a name which can then be referenced in other queries. 

For a query to be a valid view, all fields being accessed must be aliased. The alias names are how you access the fields on the view. 
```
what does "all fields being accessed must be aliased" mean, how does someone figure that out?

Author: The create a view button won't be clickable and will give you a tooltip that says to alias fields if you want to create a view. We should be able to infer this eventually but I have this implemented as such for now so that the types are really clear

> > **Note:** Currently, nested views are not supported. You cannot create a view based on other views only base PostHog models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Currently, nested views are not supported. You cannot create a view based on other views, only base PostHog models.
```

> ![valid view](../../images/features/data-warehouse/valid-view.png)

Reviewer 2: Since we're using the product usage data example below, it might be nice to have a query generating that as a view in this image! and then you can show the view being selected in the "Link view to table" image below.

Author: Done!

> ### Extending PostHog models with views

Reviewer 2: Would this only work if my view has the same primary key as my table? 
E.g. If my stripe customer data table has a customer_id primary key, then my view (with product usage data) also needs to be defined in a way so that it only has 1 row per customer_id?

Author: For that use case, yep you would ideally have a view where the customer_id/user_id is distinct.

> PostHog data warehouse views are a powerful tool for extending existing PostHog models for easier data access. For example, if you wanted to associate your Stripe customer data with product usage data of your users, you would normally need to manually set up a join. With views, you can attach views to PostHog models so that you can directly access those fields on the PostHog table. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Views are a powerful tool for extending existing PostHog models for easier data access. For example, if you wanted to associate your Stripe customer data with product usage data of your users, you would normally need to manually set up a join. With views, you can attach views to PostHog models so that you can directly access those fields on the PostHog table. 
```

---
title: Creating views
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

In the PostHog data warehouse, you can save your most used queries as **views** and reference them in subsequent queries.

### Creating a view

Query views are created directly inside SQL insights. If the query has valid view characteristics, the "Save as view" button is enabled. When clicked, you are prompted to give the view a name which can then be referenced in other queries. 

> For a query to be a valid view, all fields being accessed must be aliased. The alias names are how you access the fields on the view. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a query to be a valid view, all fields being accessed must be aliased (with the SQL `as` keyword). The alias names are how you access the fields on the view. 
```

> **Note:** Currently, nested views are not supported. You cannot create a view based on other views, only base PostHog models.

![valid view](../../images/features/data-warehouse/valid-view.png)

### Extending PostHog models with views

Views are a powerful tool for extending existing PostHog models for easier data access. For example, if you wanted to associate your Stripe customer data with product usage data of your users, you would normally need to manually set up a join. With views, you can attach views to PostHog models so that you can directly access those fields on the PostHog table. 

> The view link prompt is on the data warehouse page under the PostHog tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To link a view to a PostHog table, go to the [data warehouse section](https://app.posthog.com/data-warehouse/posthog), select the PostHog tab, and click "Link table to view." Select your tables, keys to join, and press save. Once done, when you query that PostHog table, you can access the data from your view.
```
